---
title: "Cost-Effectiveness of Liquid Biopsy for Colorectal Cancer Screening in Patients Who Are Unscreened"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2023-01-01-liquid_biopsy
excerpt: 'I really '
date: 2023-01-01
venue: 'JAMA Network Open'
slidesurl: #'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'http://mtp354.github.io/files/liquid_biopsy.pdf'
bibtexurl: 'http://mtp354.github.io/files/liquid_biopsy.bib'
citation: #
---
Despite recommendations for universal screening, adherence to colorectal cancer screening in the US is approximately 60\%. Liquid biopsy tests are in development for cancer early detection, but it is unclear whether they are cost-effective for colorectal cancer screening.To estimate the cost-effectiveness of liquid biopsy for colorectal cancer screening in the US.In this economic evaluation, a Markov model was developed to compare no screening and 5 colorectal cancer screening strategies: colonoscopy, liquid biopsy, liquid biopsy following nonadherence to colonoscopy, stool DNA, and fecal immunochemical test. Adherence to first-line screening with colonoscopy, stool DNA, or fecal immunochemical test was assumed to be 60.6\%, and  adherence for liquid biopsy was assumed to be 100\%. For colonoscopy, stool DNA, and fecal immunochemical test, patients who did not adhere to testing were not offered other screening. In colonoscopy–liquid biopsy hybrid, liquid biopsy was second-line screening for those who deferred colonoscopy. Scenario analyses were performed to include the possibility of polyp detection for liquid biopsy.No screening, colonoscopy, fecal immunochemical test, stool DNA, liquid biopsy, and colonoscopy–liquid biopsy hybrid screening.Model outcomes included life expectancy, total cost, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. A strategy was considered cost-effective if it had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio less than the US willingness-to-pay threshold of \$100 000 per life-year gained.This study used a simulated cohort of patients aged 45 years with average risk of colorectal cancer. In the base case, colonoscopy was the preferred, or cost-effective, strategy with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of \$28 071 per life-year gained. Colonoscopy–liquid biopsy hybrid had the greatest gain in life-years gained but had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of \$377 538. Colonoscopy–liquid biopsy hybrid had a greater gain in life-years if liquid biopsy could detect polyps but remained too costly.In this economic evaluation of liquid biopsy for colorectal cancer screening, colonoscopy was a cost-effective strategy for colorectal cancer screening in the general population, and the inclusion of liquid biopsy as a first- or second-line screening strategy was not cost-effective at its current cost and screening performance. Liquid biopsy tests for colorectal cancer screening may become cost-effective if their cost is substantially lowered.
